The following is indended as documentation for the library portion of `oak`.

## data/

The libpkmn C api only exposes only the outermost data structures (e.g. Battle, Options, Durations) and only as raw byte buffers.
For a usable library we need to duplicate the core type definitions.

* layout.h

All library functions that interface with the `libpkmn` objects at the lowest level are forced to bit poke (e.g. `battle.bytes[21]`). This is where struct sizes and member data offsets are listed.

* species.h
* moves.h
* types.h
* status.h

Single byte types.

* strings.h

Helper functions for printing the simple types above.

* options.h

*TODO*
This file is where the user sets constrains on the moves and species that are possible in the resulting programs (It is the user's responsibility to ensure these constraints are respected, e.g. inspect sample-teams.h)
For example, if no pokemon in the team pool for `./generate` can know disable, the the provided tensor input embedding has unused dimensions 'disable1', ..., 'disable7'. In particular this has effect of shrinking the keys for the Pokemon/Active embedding network caches.
The embeddings for OU are much smaller than the general purpose default because certain problematic moves are not banned but unheard of. Transform and Metronome are primary and secondary examples of this.

* legal-moves.h

This defines a 2d array `LEARNSETS` such that `LEARNSETS[species][move]` is true if and only if that pokemon can legally know that move at level 100. RBY does have a few illegal move combinations but we simply ignore this fact. These handful of restrictions are not competitively relevant. This file was generated by ts/legal-moves.ts and does not ever need to be re-generated.

* move-pools.h

The former array is unweildy so here we define a more natural interface e.g. `move_pool(species)`. No other code uses `LEARNSETS` so this is where move restrictions should be enforced.

## util/

The two headers below make up the rest of the C++ `libpkmn` interface.

* view.h

To the extent that is possible in C++ (there is no `i4` type for example), we duplicate the definition of the data structures in `lib/gen1/data.zig`.

Defines the `auto& View::ref(auto &)` function template that returns a reference to a wrapper for `libpkmn`'s functional types. This cheifly includes `PKMN::Battle` which provides identically named accessors for all of the zig members.

* init.h

Helper fuctions to initialize Battles and Durations structs (like properly setting sleep turns and other durations.) The function aspect of `libpkmn` is wrapped here e.g. `update()`.

* debug-log.h

`libpkmn` provides a binary that can convert a buffer of battle updates into a sleak html output. This defines a struct that stores and writes the data to disk.

* sample-teams.h

Smogon sample teams for RBY OU. Two grandfathered benchmark teams are here, too.

## pi/

Perfect info search essentially means open teamsheats. In fact all data is visible to the player/search besides the information described below.

Both Showdown and the cartriage games make use of hidden variables to determine the durations of sleep, confusion, disable, bide, thrashing moves, and partial-trapping moves. A counter is set when the effect is applied and it decrements from there. Only when the counter is 0 is the effect finished.
This is contrary to how most players imagine. Most players plan as though, for example, there is a chance their sleeping pokemon will wake every time it tries to use a move. While this is really true, it is *strategically equivalent* as long as the correct probabilities are used. For any of the effects above, the 'turn-by-turn' probabilities depend on the number of turns the effect *has been active*.

```
For example, sleep is chosen uniformly from [0, 7]. This means that on the first turn a pokemon moves after sleep has been applied, the chance of wake is 1/7. The next turn it is 1/6, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, and finally 1/1 after 7 turns when it must wake.
```

The battle object proper does not store these duration counts, only the hidden counters. The player-visible duration info is stored in the `pkmn_gen1_chance_durations`. This is the reason for the `BattleData` struct which stores both. Only when you have both do you have a complete and natural representation of the position.

* tree.h

Search data is stored in a tree structure `Node<...>`. Each `Node` store search stats and a `std::map<Key, Node>` of its children. The keys are tuples of P1 action indices, P2 action indices, and the chance `Actions` struct. This information uniquely identifies the outcome of a turn.

This approach is probably weaker than a well-tuned transposition table but it is immune to errors like hash collision. 

* ucb.h
* exp3.h

Each node stores an instance of a bandit algorithm for both players. They select and update simultaneiously.

`UCB` is the usual bandit algorithm familiar to anyone who was done mcts. It is a stochastic bandit algorithm, which means it assumes that each of the actions has a fixed distribution that determines the reward.

`Exp3` is an adversarial bandit algorithm 

* mcts.h

The core functionality is to implement a typical MCTS algorithm where a value is estimated via the 'model' at the leaf nodes and then backpropogated through the visited nodes.

TODO lots to talk about


# train/

The structures defined here is the input and target information needed to train a value/policy model. It does not take any architecture or encoding into consideration, so a frame is the raw util/durations struct together with the value/policy targets.

Therefore the `generate` program can be used to train any network not just the one provided.

# nn/

TODO describe net architecture.

* affine.h

Basic affine layer using Eigen.

* subnet.h

Templated MLPs. Building blocks for the full net.

* embedding-cache.h

We do not need to run the full forward step every inference.

* encode.h

Write battle into inputs for Pokemon/Active nets.

* net.h

Full net with embedding-cache. Therefore each instantiation requires the 'turn 1 battle' during construction. TODO

# util/

Helpers to keep the source files tidy.